Blake Griscom
04/29/21
ISAT 252
Narrative


  Coming into ISAT 252, I was nervous and at the same time excited. I saw there was a coding class that was a requirement for ISAT so I figured this semester
would be a good time to take a coding class. Before this class I had never coded before, I didn’t even know what the terminal was on my Mac or what it was used 
for, but I have always been intrigued by the way in which computers and the websites work. My brother, who is 28, told me he works with coders often for his job 
and that he wishes he paid more attention in his coding classes. Once I heard that I knew that coding, even if I’m not very good at it, would be an extremely 
helpful tool to have after college. Having no experience coding, when the first few weeks of class came around, I felt as if I got lost and confused very easily,
simply I just had no idea of what was going on. I knew that coding was very hard and complicated, I didn’t think coding was going to be as hard as it really is.

  When it comes to goals, mine were very short term. Since I’m probably one of the worst people with computers that I know so my goals were simple and easy 
overall, but not to me. My first goal was to figure out how to navigate Github, it was a struggle to say the least. Once I figured out how to navigate Github, my 
next goal was to understand all the terms, as in commits and merges. My first long term goal for the entire semester was to run a program successfully, which we 
did in class. My second long term goal was to build a website that I would be able to on my resume one day. I knew this would be an easy project for some people, 
but for me not so much, as I tend to struggle with anything computer related.

  I knew I needed to do something other than just building my website, as it would probably not be enough. I decided to try to learn Python on a few different 
free coding websites. I went to a handful of different sites and did numerous tutorials, the first site I tried was codingbat.com/python, I completed all the 
problems in warmup-1 and warmup-2. The next site that I visited was codeacademny.com/learn, which I tried but didn’t really care for the way it was set up. I 
ended up finding another website, https://edabit.com/challenges, which I had to create an account for and got a one month free trial without having to put in my 
credit card information, which I was pretty excited about. On edabit, I completed 14 out of the first 20 problems. After I finished the 14th problem, my one 
month free trial had expired so I couldn’t do any more coding on edabit. At this point the semester only had a few weeks left, I decided to work more on my 
website as I was only doing a few small things at a time with the website. In total I have spent somewhere in the neighborhood of 50 hours between the coding 
challenges, rewatching the lectures to run a program I was confused on, and building my website. I may have spent more or less than 50 hours, I wouldn’t have a 
stopwatch running, but typically I would code for about 3 ½ hours per week. I am a slow coder so it is very likely that it could have been much more than 50 
hours this semester.

  Since the beginning of the semester, I had goals and slowly started to chip away at those goals. Once I finished those goals, they had to evolve somehow. Once 
I completed my goals, I decided my new goal would be to know the basics of HTML and a very little bit of Python, as I probably would not use coding for a few 
years. I wanted to be able to remember the basics because you never know when you may need to code again and this is just a good way to say that I do know some 
very basic code. I feel as though I was successful with all of my goals, with the exception of knowing the basics of Python, I’m still working on it slowly, on 
my own time. Concrete artifacts that would serve as evidence of my successes would mainly be my website, with over 100 commits, you can see I learned and slowly 
built a website that I would be able to include in my resume. The link to my Github is https://github.com/griscobp/website1, the link to my personal website is 
https://griscobp.github.io/website1/. The areas in which I feel I failed to achieve my goals would be by understanding Python, to me it's just weird. In general 
I would say, compared to how I I felt in the beginning of the semester, I feel much better about computers. When this class started, there was that little part 
in the back of my head that was wondering if I would be a secretly really good coder, I quickly learned that I am not. From an outside view of someone who has 
never coded before, I would compare learning a programming language to learning a foreign language. The foreign language wouldn’t be a relatively easy language, 
like spanish or portaguesse, it would be much closer to mandarin or even arabic.

  After this semester, I certainly feel more educated. I never understood really how computers work and why they work the way they do, this class definitely 
helped me understand how computers work. I understand now why my friends who are CS majors are always coding, they don’t have to write papers or analyze 
readings, CS majors code instead. While I may not take another coding class, this class helped me recognize who I’m not. I’m not a technologically savvy person 
in relation to the rest of Gen Z, however my computer skills are still advanced compared to my millennial siblings. I am much more of a technical and hands on 
kind of person, I prefer to go and get my hands dirty and fix something, instead of sitting behind a computer and solving computer problems, fairly uncommon 
these days. 
  I enjoyed learning about coding and was actually interested, I just think there are other areas where I have a strong previous knowledge, the environment 
sector for example, where I can excel further. Growing up, I was always outside as a kid, either playing or working on my family farm. In addition, my dad is an 
agronomist and my brother and dad both work in agriculture. It is a field that I have spent 19 years learning about and didn’t even realize, it would be safe to 
say I was born into it. For someone who used to refer to the terminal as “that terminal thingy”, I feel I did fairly well in ISAT 252. I may have worked slower 
than others but naturally I’m just a very slow worker. Obviously I would like to receive an A in this class, however I think a B is a fair grade. I definitely 
could have put more effort into this class later in the semester, but for someone whose coding interests were crushed by the difficulty and who’s true passion 
lies outdoors working with my hands, I didn’t get too distracted as the weather got nicer.
